---
title: "One New Food Per Grocery Run"
last_modified_at: 2024-08-04
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Food
---

Without particularly trying, I've fallen into the habit this year of making sure one food that I don't normally buy ends up in my shopping cart when I go to the grocery. It doesn't _have_ to be a food I've never tried before, but that counts as bonus points. Often it'll be a single ingredient that'll then inspire a couple of dishes I wouldn't normally make. A couple of the biggest successes have been:

1. Melons. I think I've mostly been exposed to old melons that have sat precut for too long and have gone mushy. There's also a high likelihood that they're surrounded by other fruit and taste like an undistinguishable blend. I've probably bought a half dozen melons in the past year (coming from having never bought one). They're definitely going to stick in the rotation.
2. Smoked salmon. A little bit pricy, but so amazing. I could legit eat pounds of smoked salmon. 

This week, I picked up a new fruit from Costco, a [rambutan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rambutan). 

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/tunisia/IMG_9865.jpg" alt="rambutans" %}

They're pretty similar to lychee, which I've had once before. 

You cut them in half (the seed isn't too bad to cut through):

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/tunisia/IMG_9867.jpg" alt="half rambutan" %}

And the fruit easily and cleanly peels away from both the outer shell and the pit. One little layer of the pit stays attached, but I just ate that. It adds a little bit of crunch, but in a pleasant way.

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/tunisia/IMG_9869.jpg" alt="peeled rambutan" %}

The texture is great. The flavor's a little too mild to be considered great but is still pretty good.