---
title: "2024 New Year's Resolution"
last_modified_at: 2024-12-22
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Life
---

My New Year's Resolution for 2024 was a bit off the beaten path for resolutions: _I wanted to be out of Tucson for at least 12 weekends, ideally once a month._ I knew that a majority of my focus for the year was going to be on Lodestar. So I wanted a resolution that would encourage me to find some novelty and diversity, without being overly burdensome. 

In the end, my trips were a bit more clumped than I had hoped. But, I still had a lot of adventure this year. From beautiful nature, to joyful times with friends, it's easy to find reasons for gratitude in the past year. 

# 1. Sedona Round 1 (February)

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2024/1_sedona.HEIC" alt="Sedona Round 1" %}

My first trip of the year had some twists. Twists like having RSV or something the whole trip, or falling on an agave plant and literally nearly losing an eye. But it's hard to overstate how beautiful the color juxtapositions of the red rocks, evergreens, and pure white snow was. 

# 2. Vegas (February)

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2024/2_vegas.HEIC" alt="Las Vegas" %}

This night in Vegas seeing a [Benny Benassi show](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benny_Benassi) contained one of the most memorable conversations of the year. I was at a table with a group of neurosurgeons who had covered for the wild evening. I was in a delicate headspace because this was before we'd started consulting, so I was feeling a lot of financial pressure and a tinge of, let's admit it, masculine fragility. 

Halfway through the night, well past sobriety, one of the doctors pulls me over and shows me his phone. "Check this out. It's my list of startup ideas. It's so cool that you get to just follow your dreams and start your own company." I quipped back, "Hey, all you have to do is go do it. You could start one!" He just grunted. "No I can't; I've got golden handcuffs. I'd lose my house, my girlfriend would leave me. I've gotta pay alimony. You're free." 

I'd spent the whole night envious of these guys throwing money around. You know, they'd really made it in life. And yet...

# 3. Kentucky Round 1 (June)

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2024/3_kentucky.HEIC" alt="Kentucky" %}

You know your family is cool when you can text "Hey, I'm coming into town" three days before you show up and there's still an impromptu cookout for you with 20 people (and three more on the way).

The trip to KY was also a great time to catch up with the nuclear family and spend too much time playing Stronghold Crusader with Mahlon.

# 4. North Carolina (June)

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2024/4_north_carolina.HEIC" alt="North Carolina" %}

A night out on the town in Durham. That evening was a good reminder that time's flying by, that everyone is changing (in good ways!), and that it's absolutely worth finding the time to catch up with old friends. 

Another highlight of this time was getting to meet Wes' and Sherif's kids for the first time. Energy for days.

# 5. New York City (June)

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2024/5_nyc.HEIC" alt="NYC" %}

Speaking of catching up with old friends, I did a lot of that in NYC too. But, this was my first time getting to wander around NYC at night by myself, and I was surprised by how pleasant it was! My baseline is SF. At least in my initial impressions, there's no comparison. I saw more cops in NYC than I did homeless people. 

But... SF is prettier, if sleepier.

# 6. Sedona Round 2 (October)

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2024/6_sedona2.heic" alt="Sedona Round 2" %}

Even though this was an out of town trip for a wedding, this photo is a great representation of the appreciation I've felt this year for my Tucson crew. And even though this is a boys pic, the women in my Tucson life are equally amazing humans.

# 7. Denver (November)

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2024/7_denver.HEIC" alt="Denver" %}

This is a goofy representation of my third year at ASHG. I took it a bit more chill this year. I didn't even lose my voice. I was hoping that I'd be inspired to write up an entire post on ASHG. But between the sizable amount of time I spent catching up with people in 1:1 conversations and the seeming lack of significant innovation this year, there wasn't much I felt like talking about.

# 8. Gaithersburg (November)

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2024/8_gaithersburg.HEIC" alt="Gaithersburg" %}

Snack fridge.

# 9. Grand Canyon (November)

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2024/9_grand_canyon.HEIC" alt="Grand Canyon" %}

When your Canadian friend says she wants to see the Grand Canyon, you make it happen. And you sing road trip karaoke the whole way there.

# 10. Cochise (November)

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2024/10_cochise.HEIC" alt="Cochise" %}

Note

# 11. San Francisco (December)

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2024/11_sf.HEIC" alt="San Francisco" %}

Note

# 12. Kentucky Round 2 (December)

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2024/12_kentucky2.HEIC" alt="Kentucky Round 2" %}

Note